                                    README

Question 1:

Proof: Max 3 elves ask question.

When an elf thread calls AskQuestion, it checks the condition varible
isGroupWaiting. If the boolean is true, the elf waits for the GroupReleased 
condition. isGroupWaiting is set true by the third elf to make it past the
first if statement. Then the group wakes santa and waits for the answer. After
the question is answered the elves in the group may return from AskQuestion,
the last elf to return, resets the group counter to zero, sets isGroupWaiting
to false, and signals GroupReleased. 
The only way an elf can get past the initial if statement is if there is less
than 3 elves in the group.

Question 2:

Proof: No elf leaves before question answered.

After making it past the if statement described in Question 1, the elves check
the condition variable isQuestionAnswered, which can only be set to true by
Santa after the question has been answerd. If isQuestionAnswered is false, the
elves wait on the condition QuestionAnswered, which is signaled by santa 3
times after the question has been answered. Thus, no elf can exit before the
question has been answered.

Question 3: 

Proof: Show that while three elves are waiting for an answer, no other elves
can cut in and ask questions.

See Questions 1 and 2. For clarification, the if statement will block until
the whole group is released.

Question 4:

Proof: Santa only answers questions when awake.

If Santa is awake, he is either dealing with a group of elves or with the
reindeer. Santa cannot call the AnswerQuestion function while in the sleep
function. And he can only return from the sleep function, if he is woken up.
Thus, he has to be woken up to answer questions and can't answer questions in
his sleep.

Question 5:

Proof: the only deer to wake santa is the last one to return.

When the deer return (by calling ReindeerBack(), a monitor function), the
ReindeerRet counter is incremented by 1. If the counter is equal to
ReindeerTotal, the deer is the last one and this deer can now wake up santa.
Thus, only the last reindeer can wake up santa.

Question 6:

Proof: Santa always handles reindeer first.

After Santa returns from the Sleep() function, the first thing he does is call
DeerCheck(), which return true if all deer are back. If it returns false, santa
deals with the elves. Thus, the reindeer are always handled first. 

Question 7:

Proof: Reindeer can't sneak out while Santa is attaching the sleigh or
delivering toys.

After the reindeer call WaitSleigh(), they immediately call FlyOff(). FlyOff()
blocks the deer until they are all attached. Then the toys are delivered. 
After the delivery is complete the deer are detached, but Flyoff() blocks
until all deer are detached. The deer are then blocked by until Santa is
able to put his sleigh away. Once this happens the trip is complete
(TripComplete condition) and the deer are released to go on vacation.

Question 8:

Proof: Elves don't ask questions while Santa is busy with sleigh or deliveries.

When an elf group has formed, they check if Santa is asleep (isAsleep). If he
is, they wake him up. If he is not asleep, he must be busy with the deer or 
sleigh. In this case, the group waits for santa to return to bed (Condition 
Asleep0). This condition is only meet if santa returns to bed and find that an
elf group is waiting and all reindeer are not back. Thus, the elves can only
ask Santa question if is not busy with deer/sleigh.







